Welcome back.
I want to talk to you about two other new U.S. 2018 features and to show you how they work.
We're going to use the example that we had before in the video about promises where we loop through
all these you are L's are Star Wars API.
Well we fetched the data and then we just console logged whatever we received so that if I copy this
and paste it into our console we get our users.
We have Luke Skywalker C3 peo r2 d2 and Darth Vader.
And if this doesn't look familiar to you Make sure you check out the promises videos first before tackling
this one.
Now the first feature I'm going to talk about that's new in Javascript is called finally and as the
name suggests it allows us to do something.
Finally after a promise has finished and the way it works is we added usually at the end.
And this finally block will be called regardless of whether dot then works or the promise airs and catches
into an error.
So no matter what.
After everything is done inside of a promise Finally you will be called.
Whether it resolves or rejects and does something that we tell it to in our case let's say I can have
data here and this data will just console dialog to see what we get and we'll just say extra
so that when we run this one more time I'm going to copy let's refresh here.
Copy and paste I hit enter we get extra over here but undefined.
And that is because finally doesn't really receive a parameter.
So this is usually empty doesn't receive anything from the promise.
So we can just leave this out.
But you see here that I was able to call extra even though the dot then finished.
But what happens if we throw an error and a catch block gets called we can simulate that fairly easily.
We can just do inside of dot then in JavaScript back and throw an error by saying throw Error and what's
going to happen here is as soon as this line reaches it's going to throw an error skip over all these
console logs and hit the cache block with this error parameter so if I say this or let's copy this going
to refresh the page copy and paste and let's see what happens down here I'm going to hit enter and we
see that oh we get the error the cache block has run with our error but we also have the extra being
called which is finally.
So finally is great for those times that you need to run a piece of code no matter what.
After a promise perhaps you want to send an email to a user regardless of whether their request was
successful or failed.
Maybe you want to have a little notification icon.
There are many ways to use finally and now there is a way to make sure that something happens after
a promise.
Whatever we tell it to now the next one I want to talk about is a little bit more advanced in order
to explain it.
Let's clean this up and talk about the for a wait of feature now if you remember we had this piece of
code in our async await video and there I showed you how we're able to use the async await feature of
yes eight to make our promises more synchronous looking instead of having those promised change of dot
then DOD then DOD then dot catch we can use async await now the cool thing about this new feature is
that it allows us to loop through our async await calls if we have multiple of them just like we are
able to using the for of so using the for of loop that allowed us to iterate over intervals we're now
able to iterate over the await promises that we're going to have but instead of talking let me show
you in code now let's say we'll use this as an example we're gonna create a new function and this is
going to be called get data to actually let's remember what the for of loop looks like if I had a function
let's call it loop through your ls that receives the your l parameter and it will loop using the for
loop will say you are all of you are ls and the you are ls is this array over here with 3 or else and
this for all loop is simply going to a loop through everything and we can just log out there you are
about fight copy and paste this let's refresh here hit enter and just do loop through your ls now and
pass into your else parameter I see that I'm just looping through these so that's what 4 of was.
So using that knowledge we can now create a new function called get data to add this new function we'll
do exactly what this one does above by using these for a weight of feature let's see how that would
look.
We will have an async function so that we can use the awake keyword and then here we can have an array
of promises because an array of promises is irritable and able to be looped by the for a weight of keywords
so these arrays of promises will simply be are your Ls thought map that will loop and let's make this
a little bit bigger so we can see that's better we're going to loop over the you are well and it's going
to return the fetch you are well so and here in the first line all we're doing is creating an array
of these fetch promises of each one of these requests
next we can use them for a wait of to loop through these promises so all we would say is say for a wait
and then here we'll say let request
array of promises which is an admirable is going to loop through each of these promises each of the
requests and we're going to extract that data from each of the requests by saying oh wait request dropped.
Jason because remember we used the awake keyword in front of a promise.
And as we know we're using the wait keyword here because we're looping over our promises and we need
to await request.
Jason which again is a promise that receives our data.
Remember similar to how we did here before and then we simply cancelled our log let's say data to see
while we get Fi clear this and let's just copy our new code
make this a little bit bigger and make sure I don't have the semicolon then I have it here.
So let's copy the you or else refresh a page.
Copy that you URLs and then we'll also copy the function paste it in here.
Hit enter and let's just clear this and if I do get data to now when I run this we see that look at
that we've received first the users which are right here let's make this a little bit bigger so we can
see we have the users and the next stop we have what do we have next.
We have the posts so a hundred posts and then the next stop is the album's just like that
and this is the new Yes 2018 feature as you see here.
It's the exact same thing as we did above.
If I run our original function get data
we see that we get the exact same results you have albums we have post we have users.
The only thing that the for a wait of feature does it allows us to loop through these multiple promises
almost as if we're writing synchronous code right so to review we have the finally function that we
can run at the end of a promise and we have the for a weight of that takes each item from an array of
promises that returns to us in the correct order.
All the responses.
All right.
I think that's enough.
It's time for you to play around with this.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.